The graduation of the 150th class of Gilead:
Who would have thought that we would have
150 classes of Gilead?
And probably, for you students,
you were wondering if you would survive
to the 150th graduation.
Over the years,
graduations of Gilead
have taken various forms.
If you look at this photograph,
you’ll notice that for the 7th class,
the graduation was in 1946.
And what do you notice?
The guests who came along were
in the open air, hoping for good weather.
And I’m told there was no—
It wasn’t a ticketed event.
So just those that wanted to come along
came along.
And then notice in the next one here
that we’ve got the president
giving one of the talks
on the stairs leading up to Gilead.
Well, things have changed.
In 1953, the 21st class
graduated at Yankee Stadium,
and you’d imagine that was a huge event.
And in fact, it commemorated
the tenth anniversary of Gilead
and was very appropriate because that was
a very special year, 1953.
That was the year that the U.S. government
granted us legal status
so that we could have foreign students
come and join the school.
And then, of course,
no matter what graduation we’ve had,
there’s always the joyous look
on the faces of those graduating.
That’s the common denominator.
Of course, in recent years, we’ve had some
very different graduations as well
—haven’t we?—with no live audience.
But aren’t you happy
that we’ve got a live audience today?
Now, after the last few months,
you’ve been through so many lessons
and written exams and so on.
There’s been a lot of training.
And what has been the purpose of all of that?
Well, when we think
of worldly institutions and education,
usually it’s all
about the students, isn’t it?
It’s all about the dreams,
as Brother Morris mentioned.
It’s all about their ambitions
and their success
that they’re looking forward to.
But what about Gilead?
Well, you’ve learned very clearly,
I’m sure, that it’s not about you.
And if you haven’t, maybe we need
to enroll you in the next class as well.
No, as dedicated servants of Jehovah,
we see that nothing is about us.
It’s not all about us.
It’s about what we can accomplish
in praising our heavenly Father, Jehovah.
So now you’re at this point
where you’re about to graduate.
Now what?
Now is the time for you
to share what you’ve learned with others.
Now, what does that involve?
Does this mean
you’re going to go to different assignments
and start up little Gilead classes
(you know, informally)
in the back rooms of Kingdom Halls?
I wouldn’t advise that.
So, what does it mean to share
what you’ve learned with others?
Well, as has already
been highlighted in this program,
your example
—working hard—is going to help others
to see in action what you learned at Gilead.
But also we see a very interesting scripture
in the second book of Timothy,
so please turn with me to 2 Timothy chapter 2
and verse 2.
And here Paul is speaking to Timothy,
but he captures the thought
of what else we need to do.
In verse 2, it says:
“The things you heard from me
that were supported by many witnesses,
“these things entrust
to faithful men, who, in turn,
will be adequately qualified
to teach others.”
What do we see from this particular verse?
Well, yes, you will teach
by your example by doing the hard work,
but also you need
to take an interest in others
and, perhaps in a more informal setting,
help them to see the principles
and the lessons that you’ve learned
from your Gilead training.
And that’s a very important thing.
We can take the example
of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Of course, Jesus’ main focus
was the preaching
of the good news of the Kingdom, wasn’t it?
But that’s not all he did.
If we turn to Mark chapter 9,
notice in Jesus’ busy schedule
what he made time for.
This is Mark 9:30, 31:
“They departed from there
and went through Galilee,
but he did not want anyone
to get to know about it.”
So this was a time
when he wanted some peace and quiet.
Why?
Well, verse 31 says
“for he was teaching his disciples.”
So Jesus took time
from his busy schedule to show interest
in those who he was training to help them
to be prepared for the future.
So that’s a wonderful example for us.
When we look through the Scriptures,
we see many examples,
but for the next few minutes,
we’re going to think about Barnabas
and how Barnabas
was able to share what he learned with Paul.
And as we think about what happened
in that interaction
between Barnabas and Paul,
we’re going to learn five lessons
—five lessons that teach us
how to handle training others
and passing on what we’ve learned.
So the first lesson: If you turn with me,
please, to the book of Acts
—Acts chapter 9—
this takes us to around the year 36 C.E.
So Saul has already become a Christian.
Now, after a while, he arrives in Jerusalem.
So, what happens?
In verse 26 of chapter 9, it says:
“On arriving in Jerusalem, he [that’s Paul]
“made efforts to join the disciples,
“but they were
all afraid of him [I wonder why],
because they did not believe
he was a disciple.”
They were thinking,
‘This is going to be a very dangerous thing.’
But now, what happened in verse 27?
“So Barnabas came to his aid
and led him to the apostles.”
So we see, as pictured here,
Barnabas saw the potential in Saul
and believed that, really,
he could be useful
in Jehovah’s service.
So he risked his reputation, you might say,
by supporting, or sponsoring,
Saul and taking him to the apostles.
So, what’s the lesson
that we learn from this?
Try to see the potential in others.
And don’t worry about if you
perhaps encourage them
and if you give them support
—you sponsor them, you might say—
and then they don’t really turn out well
and that now all of a sudden your reputation
is going to be tarnished.
Remember, it’s not all about you.
It’s what is good for the work.
So that’s the first lesson.
Try to see the potential in others.
Now, if we turn across to Acts chapter 11,
this is about nine years later,
around the year 45 C.E.
Now, in chapter 11 of Acts,
the work is going ahead in the Gentile field
and particularly in the city of Antioch.
So Barnabas was assigned by the brothers
to go and help the congregation in Antioch.
Well, let’s look down in verses 25 and 26,
because as soon as Barnabas arrived there,
he realized he needed help.
So, what did he do?
Well, in verse 25, it says:
“He [that’s Barnabas]
went to Tarsus
to make a thorough search for Saul.”
So he went to find Saul.
He remembered that this was a man
who could speak Greek and was well-educated.
He’d be able to help him
with the Gentile field.
It’s interesting that when you
look at a map, you’ll notice
that it’s about 120 miles
from Antioch to Tarsus,
or about 200 kilometers.
It mentions here in verse 25
that he made “a thorough search for Saul.”
Why?
Well, if we compare 1 Corinthians,
where Paul lists all the things he did,
many of those, it appears,
happened in those nine years.
He was shipwrecked several times,
put into prison, and so on.
So he was very busy.
Barnabas sought him out,
and then what did he have to do?
Well, in verse 26, it says:
“After he found him,
he brought him to Antioch.”
So, what did he have to do?
He had to convince Saul.
You can imagine
that may have been a little difficult
because Saul was having
a productive ministry.
So he brought him to Antioch.
Then verse 26 says:
“For a whole year they assembled
with him in the congregation
and taught quite a crowd.”
So Barnabas didn’t take Paul and say,
“Now I’m going to teach you.”
He just had him work along with him.
And as they worked together,
that would have given Saul some training.
So, what’s the lesson
that we learn?
Be willing to make the effort.
You see, Barnabas not only
saw the potential
but was willing to go and find Saul
and then convince him to come
and work with him,
and then they worked together.
So that’s the second lesson.
The third lesson is in Acts 13.
So after Barnabas and Saul
were in Antioch for some time,
what happened in verse 2?
It says: “As they were ministering
to Jehovah and fasting,
“the holy spirit said:
“‘Set aside for me Barnabas and Saul
for the work to which I have called them.’”
Well, now, this is a time when they’re
going out in the missionary field,
but notice that the holy spirit
mentions “Barnabas and Saul.”
So in this illustration,
we see who is taking the lead—Barnabas.
Saul is following along.
But if we look down further
in verse 13 of the same chapter,
we see there’s a little change.
Saul starts to use a name
that is more common in that area—Paul.
But what does it say now?
“Paul and his companions put out to sea.”
And from here on,
it seems that Paul took the lead.
Now, let’s just imagine
for a little bit that you were Barnabas.
You know, maybe we could imagine
ourselves saying quietly to Saul, or Paul,
or whatever he was calling
himself at that time:
“Can I just have a few words with you?
“This is not a big issue, but do you remember
“when holy spirit said we were going out?
“It was ‘Barnabas and Saul.’
“Now, now, I don’t have
a big problem with this.
“But, you know, I appreciate your enthusiasm.
But, really, I was the one designated
to take the lead here.”
No, he didn’t say that, did he?
The Bearing Witness  book
mentions that he wasn’t envious at all.
So, what’s the lesson?
Well, if we’re working along
with someone and training them,
the lesson is:
Don’t be envious if they start to excel.
And actually, what we’re helping them
to do is to blossom.
And they will get some of the privileges
that perhaps we would have liked
along the way.
So we won’t be saying,
“Well, uhm, excuse me, uhm,
but I’m the one who went through Gilead.”
No, we won’t be envious.
The fourth lesson takes us
to the book of Galatians.
So if you turn with me
to Galatians chapter 2,
this is around the year 49 C.E.
Already, Peter and Paul and Barnabas
and Titus had all been to Jerusalem,
and they’d had the big discussion
with the governing body about circumcision.
Interestingly, when they
arrived in Jerusalem,
the account says that Barnabas
and Paul were there.
Interesting.
Maybe Barnabas took note of that,
that he was mentioned first again,
probably because the governing body
remembered that was actually
the role originally.
But now we find
that Peter, Paul, and Barnabas
and some others were back in Antioch.
And what happened just a few months
after that special meeting?
Well, Paul had to tell Peter
that he was doing something wrong.
But notice, please, what verse 13 says:
“The rest of the Jews also joined him
in putting on this pretense,
so that even Barnabas was led along
with them in their pretense.”
Now I just love this picture.
You see Paul telling Peter he’s wrong,
and have a look at Barnabas’ face.
He looks guilty.
Awkward!
Do you see?
He was caught in the crossfire.
He likewise was getting counsel
because he was involved with this.
So, what lesson
do we gain from this?
Accept counsel
even from those whom we are viewing
as the ones whom we’re training.
Don’t feel that we’re
above accepting counsel.
Now, the final lesson is the one
probably you thought about immediately
when we mentioned Paul and Barnabas.
I know what you were thinking—Acts 15.
So let’s turn there
—Acts 15:37-39.
And this is after the incident in Antioch.
And it says: “Barnabas was determined
to take along John,
“who was called Mark.
“Paul, however, was not in favor
of taking him along with them,
“seeing that he had departed
from them in Pamphylia
“and had not gone with them to the work.
“At this there was a sharp burst of anger,
so that they separated from each other.”
Now, this is the instance
that we usually remember
when we think of Paul and Barnabas.
What led to this problem?
Have you ever thought about that?
It mentions that Paul was very hesitant
about taking John Mark along with them.
Perhaps he remembered
on that first missionary tour
when John Mark had gone back,
he and Barnabas continued on into Galatia.
And reading what Paul said to the Galatians,
it seems obvious that Paul
had problems with his eyes
and that he was very sick at that point.
So, no doubt, you know,
he missed having a young man available
to carry the luggage and to do
all the things that needed to be done.
So Barnabas could understand
why Paul was hesitant.
He didn’t want to lose the help again.
But then, on the other hand,
what about Barnabas?
Why do you think he was
so determined to take John Mark?
Well, it could be the fact
that he was a relative
(that sometimes comes into a factor),
or it could be the fact
that Barnabas saw the potential in Saul
was the same thing he saw in John Mark.
“This is a good young man.
We need to give him a chance.”
Or could it be that he was
still stinging a little bit
after the rebuke in Antioch?
Or could it be that he was still viewing
Saul, or Paul, as a student,
someone newer in the truth
than him and someone from whom
he just found it hard to accept his opinion?
Now, we’re not going to play
the “blame game.”
Some of us will be working
with these brothers later.
But I feel safe in saying this:
I’m sure that Paul and Barnabas
when they think back to that day
would agree that they
could have done things better.
Is that a safe comment?
I think all of us have times
when we felt maybe we were right,
but we could have handled it better.
So, what’s the lesson?
Try to respect different opinions;
don’t overreact.
Don’t get upset.
Try to work through things
so that it doesn’t affect
our working relationship.
Well, when we’ve thought
about Barnabas and Paul,
it really gives us
a lot of food for thought, doesn’t it?
Remember those five lessons?
Try to see the potential in others.
Then be willing to put forward
the effort that’s required to train them.
Don’t be envious if they get privileges.
Accept counsel if they offer you counsel,
and respect their opinions as well.
We know that you’ll try
to implement those suggestions.
Yes, as you go to your assignments,
may Jehovah be with you and bless you.
May you try to help others
by sharing what you’ve learned at Gilead.
And in that way, you will fulfill
the purpose of Gilead
—to stabilize and strengthen others.